+++
date = 2022-07-03T22:00:00Z
description = "To introduce the subject and to know the advantages that Responsive design brings to a website, it is necessary to understand what we are talking about. **This technique is currently widely used so that the same website adapts to different platforms, such as a tablet, computer, or smartphone.**\n\nThe goal of it is to offer the user a much more pleasant experience and meet his or her needs. The advantages of Responsive design are as follows.\n\n1. Better user experience\n2. Get better SEO ranking\n3. Faster page speed\n4. Lower bounce rate\n5. Increase sales\n6. Increase sharing on social media\n\n## User Experience\n\nUndoubtedly, UX is one of the most important points when thinking about Responsive design, as it is what gives us concrete results.\n\nIt is proven that if a person enters a website through a mobile device and does not find what they are looking for, more than 30% go to another site. This is why it is extremely valuable that the user has a 100% positive experience.\n\n## SEO and Mobilegeddon\n\nWebsites with responsive design are favored by Google, and even more so when the web search is done through mobile devices. This causes the traffic to increase naturally.\n\nThat is why if you have a website that complies with a responsive design it will be favored by users who view it in the search results, regardless of the device from which they enter with.\n\nAnother point to take into account is that the structure of the URL remains the same on all devices and this also favors the ranking and visibility.\n\n## Page Speed\n\nWebsites that have a responsive design load faster. They are optimized for mobile devices which is why the load time is much faster than in the desktop version.\n\nIt is recommended by the Google PageSpeed Developers that the content loads in less than 1 second, and the full page in less than 2 seconds.\n\nThe loading speed is a positioning factor for Google, but for the users it is important as well, because if the web takes a long time to load they are very likely to bounce to another website.\n\n## Bounce Rate\n\nWebsites that have a responsive design will significantly reduce the number of users who enter the web and leave it without carrying out any kind of interaction. Of course, this is closely related to the user experience.\n\nThe percentage of the bounce rate is essential for Google, because if it is very high it is interpreted as the content being irrelevant and when this happens it is very likely that it will lower the ranking position.\n\n## Increase Sales\n\nNowadays more and more purchases are made through mobile devices and that is what companies are interested in: selling more of a service or product, so it is very important to have an adaptable website (responsive design) for an ecommerce.\n\nIf you are looking for a responsive UI design, [contact us](/contact)!\n\n## Social Media Shares\n\nNowadays the percentage of people who use social media is increasing and they do it through mobile phones and tablets, so it is advisable that the website has responsive design.\n\nAgain, if the user's experience is satisfactory, the chances of them sharing the page will be much higher. In addition, it will be the same experience for the person who accesses a link that has been shared via a mobile phone.\n\n## Thinking Ahead\n\nAnother advantage of responsive design is that it is created for different resolutions, so it adapts to different device screens. Therefore, you do not have to worry about those devices that appear new in the market, your website will adapt.\n\nIn short, if your website is created with responsive design, it will be ready for any device and also for those that do not exist yet.\n\n### Responsive Design: Why Have It?\n\nEvery day the use of mobile devices to access and interact on the internet grows, which is why responsive design is becoming more and more important.\n\nDo you want to have more visitors on your website? Then the answer is to start by making your website responsive. Nowadays it's almost mandatory! We were able to confirm this with all the advantages mentioned throughout the article.\n\nOf course, in addition to getting more users to access the website, their experience will be 100% satisfactory and it will get higher SEO ranking.\n\nSee for yourself the advantages of a responsive UI design, [contact us](/contact)!"
image = "/v1656933984/firos-nv-Z2c6ounF-iE-unsplash_ewbavr.jpg"
meta_description = "This technique is currently widely used so that the same website adapts to different platforms, such as a tablet, computer or smartphone."
slug = "what-are-the-advantages-of-responsive-design"
title = "What Are the Advantages of Responsive Design?"

+++
