+++
date = 2020-12-26T23:00:00Z
description = "These last few months I read two books that have inspired me to write this article. The books are [Daring Greatly by Brené Brown](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13588356-daring-greatly) and [How to Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4865.How_to_Win_Friends_and_Influence_People). Both of these books make one important point: The resentment produced by criticism and shame demoralizes and kills motivation. Let me explain why and what you can do instead to motivate others.\n\n## Shame as a Management Style in Our Society\n\nThe same dynamics of shame and condemnation is played out in all aspects of our society, whether it is in our family, work, school, and so on. Think of how these dynamics are used in a social system that you are a part of. At your workplace, in your family, at school, and other communities. Ask yourself this: Is fear of ridicule used to manipulate people? Is being blamed the standard? Is perfectionism a problem? Is self-worth correlated to financial success?\n\n[Many studies](https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/blog/longing-nostalgia/201705/why-shaming-doesnt-work) have shown that people respond more to praise rather than to scolding. Criticism is counterproductive because it makes the other person go on the defensive. Criticism makes people want to protect themselves and blame their actions on forces they can’t control rather than to look at themselves and see themselves as harmful and therefore unworthy.\n\nIt is human nature to respond negatively to blame, shame, and criticism. It fosters resentment. In the workplace this could look like a lack of engagement and motivation.\n\nWhen shame and humiliation do motivate, they do so for the wrong reasons. People will be motivated solely out of fear and refusal to feel unworthy, and not truly because they want to change. Not to mention, humiliating someone in the hopes to motivate them results in a gamble, as the person being humiliated could either sink or swim. An employee might improve their performance or outright quit their job.\n\nShame causes people to disengage. It kills the confidence to speak up, be creative, and share new ideas, because they become scared of vulnerability and the possibility of experiencing those feelings of shame once again. In order for innovation to happen, people need to be confident enough to say what’s on their mind. As Brené Brown said in her [Ted Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=psN1DORYYV0&feature=youtu.be), \"Vulnerability is the birthplace of innovation, creativity, and change.\"\n\nFrom a selfish point of view, you gain more by giving positive reinforcement over shaming.\n\n## The Power of Positive Reinforcement\n\nAll that being said, I am not saying that you should never tell someone when they have done something wrong. Honest and constructive feedback is valid and useful. However, we can learn to say it in a way that inspires growth. We do this by showing our own vulnerability. We need to be vulnerable ourselves and accept discomfort as part of our self-development journey, in order to teach and lead others to do the same. Discomfort is part of growing and we need to learn why it’s there and how to accept it. As we begin to normalize vulnerability, it will calm down the fear and anxiety around it.\n\nSo, when giving feedback, keep in mind the way you express it and remember to highlight the strengths as well. A powerful way to do this is using the sandwich method. It means, basically, that the positive feedback is given before and after any negative comments.\n\nHere is a great example of how to give constructive feedback, taken from the book Daring Greatly by Brené Brown:\n\n“Your stories and examples made me feel connected to you and what you were saying, but I sometimes struggled to read the PowerPoint and listen to you at the same time. I didn’t want to miss anything you were saying, but I worried about not following the slides. You might experiment with fewer words on the slides—or maybe even no slides. You had me without them.”\n\n### Express Gratitude\n\nResearch says that when expressing gratitude to others our brains learn optimism and how to practice positivity. At Google, they have a tool that is recognized internally called “gThanks.” It prompts peers to reward each other and send thank-you notes. Their bonus system includes $175 cash awards that they can give each other, and Google says they rarely see abuse of power from it.\n\n### One on One Time\n\nStrengthen relationships by spending time and engaging emotionally with the other person and find out what motivates them on a personal level. What are their aspirations, interests, goals, projects, or dreams? Get to really know the people you are looking to lead and motivate. Once you know what drives them, you can provide them with learning opportunities to keep them engaged.\n\n### Believe in Them\n\nDelegating is essential in good management. Take for example the Scrum framework, which is used by the biggest companies such as Facebook, Google, and Apple. Scrum is an agile framework used to manage product development. The project organization empowers Scrum teams to self-organise and handle their own jobs. If you are not delegating, then ask yourself, do you trust the other person to do the work they’re required to do? You need to support others and give them room to perform in order to keep them motivated."
image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/ddtcgm4kc/image/upload/v1609101150/Rochefort-Bordeaux2015_075_paduv6.jpg"
meta_description = "The resentment produced by criticism and shame demoralizes and kills motivation. Let me explain why and what you can do instead to motivate others."
slug = "this-is-the-most-powerful-way-to-motivate-others"
social_media_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/ddtcgm4kc/image/upload/v1609101131/Pinterest-01_jwis1w.png"
title = "This Is the Most Powerful Way to Motivate Others"

+++
