+++
date = 2022-07-01T22:00:00Z
description = "The past year brought in many new changes to user experience (UX) design and also to user interfaces (UI). \n\nGenerally speaking, these \"abrupt\" changes occur as technology advances and it is at that moment when UI/UX designers must be up to the task of offering the user the best possible experience. Likewise, every year there are certain trends in UI/UX design that must be taken into account to achieve their objectives.\n\n**The biggest trends in UI/UX design are:**\n\n1. Minimalism\n2. Neomorphism\n3. Microinteractions\n4. Data visualization\n5. Control via air gestures\n6. Virtual reality\n7. Emotional storytelling\n8. Wearables\n\n## Trends in UI/UX Design\n\n### Minimalism\n\nUndoubtedly, minimalist design is at the top of the list of trends. Currently there are many digital products with a large catalog of services, so it is necessary that the vocabulary is simple, so that the message is direct.\n\nDecorative elements, colors, and pop-up windows are less and less popular, and the reasons for this is because a lot of attention is paid to ensure that the user does not have any type of \"distraction\" and when entering the application and goes straight to what he/she wanted to do.\n\nIn addition, it has been proven that minimalist design generates a very interesting visual style and this causes new users to start using this type of interfaces.\n\n### Neomorphism\n\nWhen we talk about neomorphism, we refer to elements that \"protrude\" from the screen. Shadows are used to create this effect.\n\nFor example, the user can place the cursor over the selected product and the product will protrude from the screen. This allows the user to interact with the products and is more attractive for designers because they can create more eye-catching interfaces.\n\n### Microinteractions\n\nMicrointeractions occur when a user clicks on a button or enters information in a field in an application or website. When this happens there is an exchange between the user and the site, so UI/UX designers create interactions that attract the user's attention and are also functional.\n\n### Data Visualization\n\nOne of the most complicated parts of the user experience in many websites or apps is the ability to find a large amount of data quickly, so designers must develop: graphs, maps, posters, etc.\n\nThese options are some of the many ways available to present the data and make it easier for the user to understand.\n\n### Control Via Air Gestures\n\nTo better understand what the concept of \"air gestures\" is all about, let's start with an example: imagine turning your cell phone around to take a selfie without touching the screen, you would only have to move your hand in front of the device, this is what we mean by air gestures.\n\nSimply put, it involves performing physical gestures in front of the device as a command. It's an attractive trend, as touch screens once were.\n\nControl via air gestures offers the possibility for UI/UX designers to create much larger interfaces and of course to completely remove touch.\n\n### 3D Visual Elements\n\nAs we mentioned before, it is trendy for images/illustrations to be in 3D. This modality allows the user a deep interaction with the product he/she wants to buy.\n\nThis type of interface element is more and more requested because of the experience that users get with them. Currently, certain tools are used to create them, such as: SculptGL, Maya, etc.\n\n### Virtual Reality\n\nVirtual reality is a trend that continues to grow and is becoming more and more popular among users. Facebook has already launched a project called [Metaverse](https://blog.hubspot.es/marketing/que-es-metaverse#:\\~:text=En%20palabras%20del%20mismo%20Zuckerberg,mismo%20espacio%20f%C3%ADsico%20que%20t%C3%BA%C2%BB.) (a virtual world), where avatars of people will be able to interact and meet each other at work and in their free time.\n\nHow is this possible? With Oculus virtual reality headsets. This trend will undoubtedly be reflected in UI/UX design.\n\n### Emotional Storytelling\n\nStorytelling is the art of telling a story to customers and being able to connect with them through different emotions. The purpose of it is to incorporate a message that generates a positive attitude.\n\nThe concept is popular among marketing professionals and this trend is slowly catching on among UI/UX designers. It has been proven through neurological research, where resonance imaging was used, that users use emotions more than reason.\n\nThis means that positive emotions are very important for brands, so Storytelling is fundamental to achieve this connection. It is recommended to complement it with the rest of the mentioned trends to achieve the objective.\n\n### Wearables\n\nWearable technology is undoubtedly a trend. It refers to electronic devices and gadgets that we add to our body, such as: smart watches, GPS shoes, bracelets that monitor health, among many others. In short, they interact with the user with the aim of doing something specific.\n\nNowadays, more and more alternatives for these types of devices are becoming available and UI/UX designers must be up to the task of designing interfaces that are friendly for those small screens.\n\n## UI/UX Design: Why Follow These Trends?\n\nAfter reading the article, you will be able to visualize the importance of each of the described trends for UI/UX design, that's why we recommend you to hire designers who are updated on them and can create and develop the best interfaces for your application or website. [Contact us](/contact)!"
image = "/v1657098155/virtual-reality_zabfiu.jpg"
meta_description = "Generally speaking, these \"abrupt\" changes occur as technology advances and it is at that moment when UI/UX designers must be up to the task of offering the user the best possible experience. "
slug = "what-are-the-biggest-trends-in-ui-ux-design"
tag = ["Article"]
title = "What Are the Biggest Trends in UI/UX Design?"

+++
