+++
date = "2020-12-25T23:00:00.000+00:00"
description = "Personal development is key to a better and happier life. I’ve seen how the state of my mental health affects other areas of my life. What people I let in, the experiences I choose to take, will either lead me to a better life or a worse one. This has led me to set some clear goals for myself so I don't lose track of what I need to become a better person.\n\nIt is important to note that a goal that you can achieve has a lot more value than having many difficult ones that just lead you to burn-out. Be mindful and realistic about your goals so that you can feel the sense of achievement when you see the results, which will continue to motivate you throughout this journey.\n\nSo, here’s a list of goals that have worked for me and will hopefully inspire you to add to your list.\n\n## Improve Your Communication Skills\n\nImproving your communication skills helps you in all areas of life. In your personal life, it can help improve your relationships since you can understand and be understood better by others. In your career life, it can help you inspire, motivate, and become a better listener, which leads you into becoming a better leader or seeming more confident to secure a job interview.\n\nI’ve used many techniques to improve my communication skills. You can do things such as writing/journaling, reading, asking for honest feedback, and focusing on listening to what other have to create better connections with people. Another one of my favorite tips for improving your communication skills is to rewrite some of the most famous sales letters, such as by Gary Halbert. It's a good trick if you're into marketing.\n\n## Learn Healthy Ways to Cope With Stress\n\nEveryone gets stressed. Learning to manage it is so important because when you express it in harmful ways you can only end up hurting yourself. The more you repress those feelings of stress, the more evident they will become. In our society mental health has not been discussed enough, so it is why we can feel lost or have a lot of difficulty in learning to pinpoint it and manage it in a healthy way. So, we must teach ourselves.\n\nOne of my favorite ways to cope with stress are using different forms of self-care such as meditation, exercise, and writing about what I’m feeling or talking about it with a friend.\n\n## Live According to Your Own Values\n\nWriting down my values and being consistent with them in how I handle relationships, my career, and life in general, has helped me set boundaries and live the life that I want to create for myself. So, write them down and keep them in mind when pursuing a new goal, relationship, or career. Revisit your list whenever you can.\n\n## Find What Motivates You\n\nWhen pursuing a new goal, you have to love the journey. If you don’t love the journey, you’re not going to find motivation. What you pursue needs to have some sort of deep passion within you. If you know what your passion is, and how it will lead you to a more fulfilling life, then motivation will come naturally.\n\n## Define What Success Means to You\n\nSociety makes us believe that success means money, power, and fame. Living by those values are not fulfilling, because what drives you to them is something a lot deeper, psychologically speaking. For example, oftentimes people search for these things for validation or hoping to cure loneliness.\n\nSo, define what success means to you and live truly by your own values and not by what other people have told you. Personally, success to me means having healthy relationships (not only romantic but also with friends and family), mental stability, and having some sort of passion that motivates me to do the work I want every day.\n\n## Understand Yourself Better\n\nPracticing self-reflection is a powerful tool for self-development. Understand who you are by knowing what motivates your behaviours, so that you can learn from your mistakes. This requires that you dive into your past and look at the events that have shaped you into who you are today. This can be done in many ways. There are good books that can guide you, therapy, meditation, guided meditations (you can find them on YouTube), and journaling. You can also find online series of questions that can help you do some introspection."
image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/ddtcgm4kc/image/upload/v1608759510/La_Rochelle_Center2015_021_wid4kw.jpg"
meta_description = "Improving your communication skills helps you in all areas of life. In your personal life, it can help improve your relationships since you can understand and be understood better by others. "
slug = "what-goals-should-you-set-yourself-in-2021"
social_media_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/ddtcgm4kc/image/upload/v1609012594/Pinterest_kwzjy2.png"
title = "Cuales son las mejores metas del 2021?"

+++
